For full information, please read the report. Below is an abstract of the report, which provides the context and analysis of this project

This paper describes the creation and evaluation of a student model that is able to give insight into a computer science student’s knowledge level of programming concepts and is able to predict success in future programming assignments. A predictive overlay model was chosen to be created, which is able to represent one student’s mastery level of the Java programming language. The model provides a hierarchical organization of interrelated programming topics for a student to master. This model was created by utilizing a dataset containing computer science students’ assignments provided by the CSEDM Data Challenge. By analysing the sets of programming concepts utilized in each assignment in the dataset, the model was trained to be able to provide an insight into a student’s mastery level and offered a prediction for future success in programming assignments. The model was evaluated by measuring accuracy, prediction, recall and f-score. Based on the results of these evaluations, the model has been found to be able to predict student performance with an accuracy of 80%. The predictive overlay model will be able to aid students, teachers, educational institutions and the overall learning process. This paper supports research on educational data mining in the field of computer science education. 

In order to run the code associated with The report and the project in general, run the following file:
StudentModel.py
